# Best Practices for the NERC Users

By 2025, according to [Gartner's forecast](https://www.gartner.com/smarterwithgartner/is-the-cloud-secure),
the responsibility for approximately 99% of cloud security failures will likely
lie with customers. These failures can be attributed to the difficulties in gauging
and overseeing risks associated with on-prem cloud security. The MGHPCC will enter
into a lightweight **Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)** with each institutional
customer that consumes NERC services and that will also clearly explain about
the security risks and some of the shared responsibilities for the customers while
using the NERC. This ensures roles and responsibilities are distinctly understood
by each party.

**NERC Principal Investigators (PIs):** PIs are ultimately responsible for their
end-users and the security of the systems and applications that are deployed as
part of their project(s) on NERC. This includes being responsible for the security
of their data hosted on the NERC as well as users, accounts and access management.

Every individual user needs to comply with your Institution’s [**Security**
and **Privacy** policies](https://nerc.mghpcc.org/privacy-and-security/) to protect
their **Data, Endpoints, Accounts and Access management**. They
must ensure any data created on or uploaded to the NERC is adequately secured.
Each customer has complete control over their systems, networks and assets. It
is essential to restrict access to the NERC provided user environment only to
authorized users by using secure identity and access management. Furthermore,
users have authority over various credential-related aspects, including secure
login mechanisms, single sign-on (SSO), and multifactor authentication.

Under this model, we are responsible for operation of the physical infrastructure
that includes responsibility for protecting, patching and maintaining underlying
virtualization layer, servers, disks, storage, network gears, other hardwares,
and softwares. Whereas NERC users are responsible for the security of the guest
operating system (OS) and software stack i.e. databases used to run their
applications and data. They are also entrusted with safeguarding middleware,
containers, workloads, and any code or data generated by the platform.

All NERC users are responsible for their use of NERC services, which include:

- Following the best practices for security on NERC services. Please review your
institutional guidelines [next](best-practices-for-my-institution.md).

- Complying with security policies regarding VMs and containers. NERC admins are
not responsible for maintaining or deploying VMs or containers created by PIs for
their projects. See Harvard University and Boston University policies
[here](https://nerc.mghpcc.org/privacy-and-security/). We will be adding more
institutions under this page soon. Without prior notice, NERC reserves the right
to shut down any VM or container that is causing internal or external problems
or violating these policies.

- Adhering to institutional restrictions and compliance policies around the data
they upload and provide access to/from NERC. At NERC, we only offer users to
store internal data in which information is chosen to keep confidential but the
disclosure of which would not cause material harm to you, your users and your
institution. Your institution may have already classified and categorized data
and implemented security policies and guidance for each category. If your project
includes sensitive data and information then you might need to contact NERC’s
admin as soon as possible to discuss other potential options.

- [Backups and/or snapshots](../../openstack/backup/backup-with-snapshots.md)
are the user's responsibility for volumes/data, configurations, objects, and
their state, which are useful in the case when users accidentally delete/lose
their data. NERC admins cannot recover lost data. In addition, while NERC stores
data with high redundancy to deal with computer or disk failures,  PIs should
ensure they have off-site backups for disaster recovery, e.g., to deal with
occasional disruptions and outages due to the natural disasters that impact the
MGHPCC data center.

---
